Docker offers several different benefits to us as web developers,
and in this section,
we're going to walk through some of the key benefits
that we can get by leveraging it.
So whether you work on a team of one or many, Docker can help set up a
development environment very quickly, and that's really one of the key aspects
that we're going to focus on throughout this course.
Although that's just a very minor benefit,
it's definitely a big benefit as a web developer. Docker
can also help eliminate app conflicts.
If you have versions of framework saying you can't move to the latest version,
isolated containers can help out there.
It also provides a way to move your code and the entire
environment of the code between your different environments,
so between things like development, staging, and production.
And if we can do all of that,
we can more than likely ship software faster, and that's a good thing,
of course.
So let's dive into each of these four areas really quickly.
So when it comes to accelerating developer onboarding,
oftentimes we have multiple team members,
of course, and we might have some developers,
maybe a mix of designers or people that kind of do both of those things,
and oftentimes we want people working with the actual version of the app
versus just a prototype that's separate.
And so we might have a web server, we might have a database server,
caching server, and those types of things, and setting all
that up on an individual developer machine,
especially for people that work remotely in different scenarios,
can be challenging because you have to get the security right, you have to
get the configuration settings right, make sure the right versions are on
there, and so getting that right and not having surprises after the fact
can be a little bit challenging.
So Docker can help there because we can make one or more images that can then
be converted into running containers, and those containers can run on our
different developer and even designer machines.
You'll see in just a little bit to get this up and running, you can
just run a simple command from the command prompt,
so you really don't even have to be a developer per se to get some of
the benefits out of what Docker can offer here.
Now the next thing we'll talk about that Docker can help us with is
eliminating app conflicts and version conflicts.
Oftentimes you have an app running on a specific version of a framework,
and you'd like to move to the next version of the framework, but
you're told you can't because that'll impact other applications
running on the production servers.
And so what Docker can offer is isolated containers, and each container that
actually contains the framework that's having this versioning can actually be
isolated, as we've talked about. And as a result,
we can have V1, and App1, 2, and 3 that are targeting V1 will run
fine in their own containers, and then App1, 2, and 3 targeting
V2 can run in their own containers.
And now we can have different versions of whether
it's Node or PHP or ASP.NET running.
This makes a lot easier now to work with versioning and app conflicts.
Now some of the frameworks out there obviously have
some of this versioning built in, but with this,
you really won't have to worry about it. Even if your framework
doesn't have a good versioning story as you move between versions,
Docker can help out in those scenarios.
Now it can also help, as mentioned, with consistency between environments.
And this is one of those things that I know I personally
have been burnt by over the years.
Going way back around the year 2000,
we had a particular project I was working on at a consulting company, and
our development environment was set up by the company.
We didn't actually do it ourselves,
so we had to work on remote machines. And the staging environment
was also set up by them, and everything was working great on dev and
was supposed to be the same a staging,
but turns out it was not, and so we had a nice surprise and had to do
some rewrites of things as we moved our first code over to staging. With
Docker, we can eliminate a lot of these surprises because we'll simply
move the different images that we're going to be building throughout
this course over to the different environments and get the containers up
and running.
And that way, if it runs on dev,
it definitely should run the same on staging and production,
and we'll talk about how to get all that set up. Now, when doing that,
that just means obviously we can leverage all of
these benefits to ship code faster.
And that's really what software is all about is productivity, high quality,
predictability,
consistency, you know, all these different words we can throw out.
But as we do move our images between dev and staging and production and
get those containers going, we can leverage these benefits that Docker
offers of the isolation of the containers.
We can have a consistent development environment and all the other
benefits with versioning and things that we've talked about.
So there really is a lot of good things that Docker brings to the table for us as web developers, and now you've seen a few of those.